README.md, before:

# Micropack UI Kit

[![Pub Version](https://img.shields.io/pub/v/micropack_ui_kit.svg)](https://pub.dev/packages/micropack_ui_kit)
[![Platform](https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-flutter-blue.svg)](https://flutter.dev/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Flutter Analysis](https://img.shields.io/badge/analysis-passing-brightgreen)](https://pub.dev/packages/micropack_ui_kit)

A comprehensive, customizable, and theme-aware UI kit for Flutter applications. Micropack UI Kit provides **31 beautifully designed components** that automatically adapt to light and dark themes, ensuring a consistent user experience across your app.

## ✨ Features

- 🎨 **Theme-Aware Components**: All components automatically adapt to light and dark themes
- 🎯 **Consistent Design System**: Unified design language across 31 components
- 📱 **Responsive Design**: Built-in responsive utilities for different screen sizes
- 🎭 **Customizable**: Extensive customization options for colors, fonts, and styles
- 🌐 **Cross-Platform**: Works seamlessly across Android, iOS, Web, Desktop
- ♿ **Accessibility**: Built with accessibility best practices in mind
- 🔧 **Developer Friendly**: Clean API with comprehensive documentation
- 🧪 **Well Tested**: Comprehensive test coverage for all components

## 🚀 Installation

Add this to your package's `pubspec.yaml` file:

```yaml
dependencies:
  micropack_ui_kit: ^0.3.0
```

Then install the package:

```bash
flutter pub get
```

## 🎯 Quick Start

### 1. Import the package

```dart
import 'package:micropack_ui_kit/micropack_ui_kit.dart';
```

### 2. Initialize the UI Kit

```dart
void main() {
  WidgetsFlutterBinding.ensureInitialized();

  // Initialize the UI Kit with your brand colors
  MpUiKit.init(
    colorBrand: Color(0xFF4086EF),      // Primary brand color
    colorBrand2: Color(0xFFFFFFFF),     // Secondary brand color
    colorText: Color(0xFF2F2F2F),      // Text color
    fontName: 'Inter',                 // Optional: custom font
  );

  runApp(MyApp());
}
```

### 3. Set up the theme provider

```dart
class MyApp extends StatelessWidget {
  const MyApp({super.key});

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return MPComponentInit(
      builder: (_) => MaterialApp(
        title: 'My App',
        theme: MPTheme.main().copyWith(
          extensions: [MPColorTheme.light],
        ),
        darkTheme: MPTheme.main().copyWith(
          extensions: [MPColorTheme.dark],
        ),
        home: const HomePage(),
      ),
    );
  }
}
```

## 🎨 Theme System

Micropack UI Kit includes a powerful theme system that automatically adapts to light and dark modes:

### Accessing Theme Colors

```dart
@override
Widget build(BuildContext context) {
  return Container(
    color: context.mp.adaptiveBackgroundColor,
    child: MPText(
      'Themed Text',
      style: TextStyle(color: context.mp.textColor),
    ),
  );
}
```

### Available Theme Properties

- `context.mp.primary` - Primary brand color
- `context.mp.primaryBorder` - Primary border color
- `context.mp.textColor` - Adaptive text color
- `context.mp.subtitleColor` - Secondary text color
- `context.mp.captionColor` - Caption text color
- `context.mp.adaptiveBackgroundColor` - Background color that adapts to theme
- `context.mp.adaptiveBorderColor` - Border color that adapts to theme
- `context.mp.errorColor` - Error color
- `context.mp.successColor` - Success color
- `context.mp.warningColor` - Warning color
- `context.mp.infoColor` - Info color

## 🧩 Available Components

| Component | Category | Description | Demo |
|-----------|-----------|-------------|-------|
| **MPButton** | Basic | Customizable button with multiple variants | ✅ |
| **MPCard** | Basic | Content container with styling | ✅ |
| **MPText** | Basic | Enhanced text component | ✅ |
| **MPTextField** | Form | Input field with validation | ✅ |
| **MPCheckbox** | Form | Checkbox component | ✅ |
| **MPSwitch** | Form | Toggle switch component | ✅ |
| **MPBadge** | Feedback | Status indicator badge | ✅ |
| **MPChip** | Feedback | Tag/label chip | ✅ |
| **MPTooltip** | Feedback | Contextual help tooltip | ✅ |
| **MPProgress** | Feedback | Progress indicators (linear/circular) | ✅ |
| **MPDropdown** | Form | Select dropdown with search | ✅ |
| **MPToast** | Feedback | Quick notification toast | ✅ |
| **MPSnackbar** | Feedback | Snackbar notifications | ✅ |
| **MPDialog** | Navigation | Modal dialog | ✅ |
| **MPBottomSheet** | Navigation | Bottom sheet modal | ✅ |
| **MPAppBar** | Navigation | Theme-aware app bar | ✅ |
| **MPNavigationRail** | Navigation | Desktop sidebar navigation | ✅ |
| **MPPlatformAdaptive** | Utility | Platform-specific widget selector | ✅ |
| **MPListTile** | Display | Standard list item | ✅ |
| **MPAvatar** | Display | User profile avatar | ✅ |
| **MPDivider** | Display | Divider with theme support | ✅ |
| **MPEmptyState** | Display | Empty state placeholder | ✅ |
| **MPTab** | Navigation | Tab navigation | ✅ |
| **MPSkeleton** | Display | Loading skeleton | ✅ |
| **MPArticleCard** | Display | Article card with features | ✅ |

### 📦 Component Categories

#### 🔘 Basic Components
- **MPButton** - Multiple variants (primary, outlined, ghost, etc.)
- **MPCard** - Content containers with elevation
- **MPText** - Typography system with built-in styles
- **MPTextField** - Form inputs with validation

#### 📝 Form Components
- **MPCheckbox** - Checkboxes with states
- **MPSwitch** - Toggle switches
- **MPDropdown** - Select inputs with search
- **MPBadge** - Status indicators

#### 💬 Feedback Components
- **MPChip** - Tag and label chips
- **MPTooltip** - Contextual tooltips
- **MPProgress** - Linear and circular progress
- **MPToast** - Quick notifications
- **MPSnackbar** - Snackbar with actions

#### 🧭 Navigation Components
- **MPDialog** - Modal dialogs
- **MPBottomSheet** - Bottom sheet modals
- **MPAppBar** - Theme-aware app bars
- **MPNavigationRail** - Desktop sidebar
- **MPPlatformAdaptive** - Platform widget selector
- **MPTab** - Tab navigation

#### 📰 Display Components
- **MPListTile** - Standard list items
- **MPAvatar** - User profile images
- **MPDivider** - Dividers with styling
- **MPEmptyState** - Empty state placeholders
- **MPSkeleton** - Loading skeletons
- **MPArticleCard** - Article cards

---

## 🔘 MPButton

Customizable button with multiple variants and states.

```dart
MPButton(
  text: 'Get Started',
  variant: MPButtonVariant.primary,
  size: MPButtonSize.medium,
  onPressed: () => print('Button pressed'),
)

// Button with icon
MPButton(
  text: 'Download',
  icon: Icons.download,
  variant: MPButtonVariant.outlined,
  onPressed: () => _downloadFile(),
)

// Loading state
MPButton(
  text: 'Processing...',
  loading: true,
  onPressed: null, // Disabled when loading
)
```

**Variants**: `primary`, `outlined`, `ghost`, `text`, `danger`, `success`, `warning`, `info`
**Sizes**: `small`, `regular`, `medium`, `large`

### 📝 MPCheckbox

Checkbox component with multiple sizes and states.

```dart
// Basic checkbox
MPCheckbox(
  value: _isChecked,
  onToggle: (value) => setState(() => _isChecked = value ?? false),
)

// With label
Row(
  children: [
    MPCheckbox(
      value: _isChecked,
      onToggle: (value) => setState(() => _isChecked = value ?? false),
    ),
    SizedBox(width: 12),
    MPText('I agree to the terms'),
  ],
)

// Different sizes
MPCheckbox(
  value: true,
  size: MPCheckboxSize.small,
  onToggle: (value) {},
)

// Indeterminate state
MPCheckbox(
  value: _isIndeterminate,
  tristate: true,
  onToggle: (value) => setState(() => _isIndeterminate = value ?? false),
)
```

**Sizes**: `small`, `medium`, `large`
**States**: `checked`, `unchecked`, `indeterminate`

### 🔄 MPSwitch

Toggle switch component with multiple variants.

```dart
// Basic switch
MPSwitch(
  value: _isOn,
  onToggle: (value) => setState(() => _isOn = value),
)

// With label
Row(
  children: [
    Expanded(child: MPText('Dark Mode')),
    MPSwitch(
      value: _isDarkMode,
      onToggle: (value) => setState(() => _isDarkMode = value),
    ),
  ],
)

// Different sizes
MPSwitch(
  value: true,
  size: MPSwitchSize.small,
  onToggle: (value) {},
)

// Disabled
MPSwitch(
  value: true,
  disabled: true,
  onToggle: (value) {},
)
```

**Sizes**: `small`, `medium`, `large`

### 🏷️ MPChip

Tag and label chip component with variants.

```dart
// Basic chip
MPChip(
  label: 'Flutter',
  onTap: () => print('Chip tapped'),
)

// With avatar
MPChip(
  label: 'John Doe',
  avatar: CircleAvatar(child: Text('JD')),
  onTap: () {},
)

// Closable chip
MPChip(
  label: 'Tag',
  onDeleted: () => print('Chip deleted'),
)

// Filter chip
MPChip(
  label: 'All',
  selected: _isSelected,
  variant: MPChipVariant.filter,
  onTap: () => setState(() => _isSelected = !_isSelected),
)
```

**Variants**: `default`, `primary`, `outlined`, `filter`

### 📊 MPProgress

Progress indicators for loading and completion states.

```dart
// Linear progress bar
MPProgressBar(
  value: 0.7, // 0.0 to 1.0
)

// Indeterminate progress
const MPProgressBar()

// Circular progress
MPCircularProgress(
  value: 0.5,
)

// Indeterminate circular
const MPCircularProgress()
```

### 📋 MPDropdown

Select dropdown component with search support.

```dart
// Basic dropdown
MPDropdown<String>(
  hint: 'Select country',
  value: _selectedCountry,
  items: const [
    DropdownItem(value: 'US', label: 'United States'),
    DropdownItem(value: 'UK', label: 'United Kingdom'),
  ],
  onChanged: (value) => setState(() => _selectedCountry = value),
)

// Searchable dropdown
MPDropdown<String>(
  hint: 'Search and select',
  searchable: true,
  items: _allItems,
  onChanged: (value) => setState(() => _selectedValue = value),
)

// Multi-select
MPDropdown<String>(
  hint: 'Select categories',
  multiSelect: true,
  items: _categories,
  onChanged: (values) => setState(() => _selectedCategories = values),
)
```

### 💡 MPTooltip

Contextual tooltip component for additional information.

```dart
// Basic tooltip
MPTooltip(
  message: 'This is a tooltip',
  child: Icon(Icons.help),
)

// Rich tooltip with icon
MPTooltip(
  message: 'Feature available in Pro',
  icon: Icons.star,
  child: Icon(Icons.lock),
)

// Positioned tooltip
MPTooltip(
  message: 'Positioned at top',
  position: MPTooltipPosition.top,
  child: MPButton(text: 'Hover Me'),
)
```

**Positions**: `top`, `bottom`, `left`, `right`

### 💬 MPSnackbar

Snackbar notification component with variants and actions.

```dart
// Basic snackbar
MPSnackbar.show(
  context: context,
  message: 'Operation completed successfully',
  variant: MPSnackbarVariant.success,
)

// With action
MPSnackbar.show(
  context: context,
  message: 'Item deleted',
  action: MPSnackbarAction(
    label: 'UNDO',
    onPressed: () => _undoDeletion(),
  ),
)

// Custom duration
MPSnackbar.show(
  context: context,
  message: 'This message will stay for 5 seconds',
  duration: Duration(seconds: 5),
)

// Custom position
MPSnackbar.show(
  context: context,
  message: 'Top positioned snackbar',
  position: MPSnackbarPosition.top,
)
```

**Variants**: `success`, `error`, `info`, `warning`
**Positions**: `top`, `bottom`

### 💀 MPSkeleton

Loading skeleton component for placeholder content.

```dart
// Text skeleton
MPSkeleton(type: MPSkeletonType.line, width: double.infinity)

// Avatar skeleton
MPSkeleton(type: MPSkeletonType.circle, size: 64)

// Image skeleton
MPSkeleton(
  type: MPSkeletonType.rect,
  width: double.infinity,
  height: 200,
)

// Card skeleton
Container(
  child: Column(
    children: [
      MPSkeleton(type: MPSkeletonType.rect, width: 100, height: 100),
      SizedBox(height: 12),
      MPSkeleton(type: MPSkeletonType.line, width: 200),
      MPSkeleton(type: MPSkeletonType.line, width: 150),
    ],
  ),
)
```

**Types**: `line`, `circle`, `rect`

### 📰 MPArticleCard

```dart
MPArticleCard(
  title: 'Understanding Flutter Themes',
  description: 'Learn how to implement beautiful themes in your Flutter applications.',
  imageUrl: 'https://example.com/image.jpg',
  author: 'John Doe',
  date: 'March 15, 2024',
  readTime: '5 min read',
  category: 'Flutter',
  tags: ['UI', 'Themes', 'Development'],
  onTap: () => _openArticle(),
  onLike: () => _toggleLike(),
  onBookmark: () => _toggleBookmark(),
  onShare: () => _shareArticle(),
)
```

**Variants**: `standard`, `elevated`, `outlined`
**Sizes**: `small`, `medium`, `large`

### 📝 MPText

Enhanced text component with built-in styling options.

```dart
// Different text styles
MPText.head('Heading Text')
MPText.subhead('Subheading Text')
MPText.body('Body text content')
MPText.label('Label text')
MPText.small('Small caption text')

// Custom styling
MPText(
  'Custom styled text',
  style: MPTextStyle.heading3(
    color: context.mp.primary,
    fontWeight: FontWeight.bold,
  ),
)
```

### 📝 MPTextField

Input field component with validation and theming support.

```dart
MPTextField(
  hintText: 'Enter your email',
  controller: _emailController,
  prefixIcon: Icons.email,
  validator: (value) {
    if (value?.isEmpty ?? true) return 'Email is required';
    if (!value!.contains('@')) return 'Invalid email format';
    return null;
  },
  onChanged: (value) => _updateEmail(value),
)

// Password field
MPTextField(
  hintText: 'Password',
  controller: _passwordController,
  obscureText: true,
  prefixIcon: Icons.lock,
  suffixIcon: Icons.visibility,
)
```

### 💬 MPDialog

Modal dialog component with multiple display options.

```dart
// Confirmation dialog
MPDialog.show(
  context: context,
  title: 'Confirm Deletion',
  content: 'Are you sure you want to delete this item?',
  confirmText: 'Delete',
  cancelText: 'Cancel',
  type: DialogType.warning,
  onConfirm: () => _deleteItem(),
)

// Success dialog
MPDialog.show(
  context: context,
  title: 'Success!',
  content: 'Your changes have been saved successfully.',
  type: DialogType.success,
  onConfirm: () => Navigator.of(context).pop(),
)
```

### 📑 MPTab

Customizable tab component for navigation.

```dart
MPTab(
  tabs: const ['Home', 'Profile', 'Settings'],
  selectedIndex: _selectedIndex,
  onTabChanged: (index) => setState(() => _selectedIndex = index),
  variant: MPTabVariant.rounded,
)
```

### 🔔 MPSnackbar

Notification component for displaying brief messages.

```dart
MPSnackbar.show(
  context: context,
  message: 'Operation completed successfully',
  type: MPSnackbarType.success,
  duration: Duration(seconds: 3),
  action: SnackBarAction(
    label: 'UNDO',
    onPressed: () => _undoAction(),
  ),
)
```

## 🎯 Advanced Usage

### Custom Theme Configuration

```dart
// Initialize with custom configuration
MpUiKit.init(
  colorBrand: Color(0xFF4086EF),
  colorBrand2: Color(0xFFFFFFFF),
  colorStroke: Color(0xFF4086EF),
  colorText: Color(0xFF2F2F2F),
  colorError: Color(0xFFFF0000),
  colorDisable: Color(0xFFA9A9A9),
  fontName: 'Inter',
  buttonBorderRadius: 12.0,
  useScreenUtil: true, // Enable responsive font sizing
);

// Custom text style
MPTextStyle.defaultFontFamily = 'Roboto';
```

### Responsive Design

The UI Kit includes built-in responsive utilities:

```dart
// Responsive breakpoints
MpUiKit.limitSmallMediumScreen = 600;   // Small < 600px < Medium
MpUiKit.limitMediumLargeScreen = 1024;   // Medium < 1024px < Large

// Responsive font helper
double responsiveSize = ResponsiveFontHelper.getResponsiveFontSize(
  16.0, // Base font size
  context,
);
```

## 📚 Documentation

For detailed documentation and examples:

- [Getting Started Guide](docs/getting-started/README.md)
- [Component API Reference](docs/api/components.md)
- [Theme Configuration](docs/guides/theming.md)
- [Examples](docs/examples/README.md)

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

### Development Setup

1. Clone the repository
2. Run `flutter pub get` in the root directory
3. Run `flutter pub get` in the example directory
4. Run the example app: `cd example && flutter run`

### Code Style

This project follows the [Very Good Analysis](https://pub.dev/packages/very_good_analysis) linting rules.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 📋 Changelog

### ✅ Recent Updates

#### [0.3.0] - 2025-12-23
- ✨ **New Demo Pages**: Added 9 new demo pages for all form components
  - Badge, Switch, Chip, Progress, Dropdown, Tooltip, Checkbox, Snackbar, Skeleton
- 📊 **Complete Demo Coverage**: 100% demo coverage for all 26 components
- 🎨 **Enhanced App Bar Demo**: Improved UX with proper full-screen examples
- 🧭 **Navigation Improvements**: Added Form Components section in home page
- 📝 **Documentation**: Updated README with component table and examples

#### [0.2.0] - 2025-12-23
- 🧭 **Navigation Components**: MPBottomSheet, MPNavigationRail, MPAppBar, MPPlatformAdaptive
- 📊 **Feedback Components**: MPListTile, MPAvatar, MPDivider, MPEmptyState
- 🧪 **Complete Test Suite**: Tests for all new components
- 📱 **Platform Support**: Enhanced macOS and web optimization

#### [0.1.1] - 2025-12-06
- 🔧 **Code Quality**: Final cleanup of flutter_screenutil remnants
- 🧪 **Test Suite**: Complete removal of ScreenUtilInit from test files
- 📝 **Documentation**: Added comprehensive migration guide and API reference
- 🐛 **Bug Fixes**: Resolved all ScreenUtil-related issues

#### [0.1.0] - 2025-12-05
- ❌ **Breaking Change**: Removed `flutter_screenutil` dependency
- 🔄 **Migration**: Complete transition to `MPResponsive` system
- 🚀 **Performance**: 18% faster app startup, 50KB smaller bundle
- 📱 **Responsive**: New built-in responsive design system

### 📚 Migration Resources
- **[Migration Guide](MIGRATION_GUIDE.md)**: Step-by-step flutter_screenutil to MPResponsive migration
- **[Changelog](CHANGELOG.md)**: Detailed version history and breaking changes
- **API Reference**: Complete documentation for new responsive methods

## 🔗 Links

- [Pub.dev Package](https://pub.dev/packages/micropack_ui_kit)
- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/ajianaz/micropack-ui-kit.git)
- [Example App](example/)
- [Issue Tracker](https://github.com/ajianaz/micropack-ui-kit/issues)

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Thanks to all the contributors who have helped make this package better
- Built with ❤️ for the Flutter community

Commit message:

auto-claude: subtask-3-2 - Decision point: Keep flutter_switch with documented rationale
Added justification in pubspec.yaml and README.md for keeping flutter_switch package:
- flutter_switch provides critical features not available in native Switch
- Custom dimensions, ON/OFF text, full border customization, arbitrary icons
- Migration would result in breaking changes and feature loss
- Package remains compatible with latest Flutter versions

Documentation:
- pubspec.yaml: Added detailed comment explaining why flutter_switch is kept
- README.md: Added note in MPSwitch section with link to full analysis
- All MPSwitch tests passing (6/6)

Analysis document: .auto-claude/specs/001-improvement/FLUTTER_SWITCH_ANALYSIS.md

README.md, after:

# Micropack UI Kit

[![Pub Version](https://img.shields.io/pub/v/micropack_ui_kit.svg)](https://pub.dev/packages/micropack_ui_kit)
[![Platform](https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-flutter-blue.svg)](https://flutter.dev/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Flutter Analysis](https://img.shields.io/badge/analysis-passing-brightgreen)](https://pub.dev/packages/micropack_ui_kit)

A comprehensive, customizable, and theme-aware UI kit for Flutter applications. Micropack UI Kit provides **31 beautifully designed components** that automatically adapt to light and dark themes, ensuring a consistent user experience across your app.

## ✨ Features

- 🎨 **Theme-Aware Components**: All components automatically adapt to light and dark themes
- 🎯 **Consistent Design System**: Unified design language across 31 components
- 📱 **Responsive Design**: Built-in responsive utilities for different screen sizes
- 🎭 **Customizable**: Extensive customization options for colors, fonts, and styles
- 🌐 **Cross-Platform**: Works seamlessly across Android, iOS, Web, Desktop
- ♿ **Accessibility**: Built with accessibility best practices in mind
- 🔧 **Developer Friendly**: Clean API with comprehensive documentation
- 🧪 **Well Tested**: Comprehensive test coverage for all components

## 🚀 Installation

Add this to your package's `pubspec.yaml` file:

```yaml
dependencies:
  micropack_ui_kit: ^0.3.0
```

Then install the package:

```bash
flutter pub get
```

## 🎯 Quick Start

### 1. Import the package

```dart
import 'package:micropack_ui_kit/micropack_ui_kit.dart';
```

### 2. Initialize the UI Kit

```dart
void main() {
  WidgetsFlutterBinding.ensureInitialized();

  // Initialize the UI Kit with your brand colors
  MpUiKit.init(
    colorBrand: Color(0xFF4086EF),      // Primary brand color
    colorBrand2: Color(0xFFFFFFFF),     // Secondary brand color
    colorText: Color(0xFF2F2F2F),      // Text color
    fontName: 'Inter',                 // Optional: custom font
  );

  runApp(MyApp());
}
```

### 3. Set up the theme provider

```dart
class MyApp extends StatelessWidget {
  const MyApp({super.key});

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return MPComponentInit(
      builder: (_) => MaterialApp(
        title: 'My App',
        theme: MPTheme.main().copyWith(
          extensions: [MPColorTheme.light],
        ),
        darkTheme: MPTheme.main().copyWith(
          extensions: [MPColorTheme.dark],
        ),
        home: const HomePage(),
      ),
    );
  }
}
```

## 🎨 Theme System

Micropack UI Kit includes a powerful theme system that automatically adapts to light and dark modes:

### Accessing Theme Colors

```dart
@override
Widget build(BuildContext context) {
  return Container(
    color: context.mp.adaptiveBackgroundColor,
    child: MPText(
      'Themed Text',
      style: TextStyle(color: context.mp.textColor),
    ),
  );
}
```

### Available Theme Properties

- `context.mp.primary` - Primary brand color
- `context.mp.primaryBorder` - Primary border color
- `context.mp.textColor` - Adaptive text color
- `context.mp.subtitleColor` - Secondary text color
- `context.mp.captionColor` - Caption text color
- `context.mp.adaptiveBackgroundColor` - Background color that adapts to theme
- `context.mp.adaptiveBorderColor` - Border color that adapts to theme
- `context.mp.errorColor` - Error color
- `context.mp.successColor` - Success color
- `context.mp.warningColor` - Warning color
- `context.mp.infoColor` - Info color

## 🧩 Available Components

| Component | Category | Description | Demo |
|-----------|-----------|-------------|-------|
| **MPButton** | Basic | Customizable button with multiple variants | ✅ |
| **MPCard** | Basic | Content container with styling | ✅ |
| **MPText** | Basic | Enhanced text component | ✅ |
| **MPTextField** | Form | Input field with validation | ✅ |
| **MPCheckbox** | Form | Checkbox component | ✅ |
| **MPSwitch** | Form | Toggle switch component | ✅ |
| **MPBadge** | Feedback | Status indicator badge | ✅ |
| **MPChip** | Feedback | Tag/label chip | ✅ |
| **MPTooltip** | Feedback | Contextual help tooltip | ✅ |
| **MPProgress** | Feedback | Progress indicators (linear/circular) | ✅ |
| **MPDropdown** | Form | Select dropdown with search | ✅ |
| **MPToast** | Feedback | Quick notification toast | ✅ |
| **MPSnackbar** | Feedback | Snackbar notifications | ✅ |
| **MPDialog** | Navigation | Modal dialog | ✅ |
| **MPBottomSheet** | Navigation | Bottom sheet modal | ✅ |
| **MPAppBar** | Navigation | Theme-aware app bar | ✅ |
| **MPNavigationRail** | Navigation | Desktop sidebar navigation | ✅ |
| **MPPlatformAdaptive** | Utility | Platform-specific widget selector | ✅ |
| **MPListTile** | Display | Standard list item | ✅ |
| **MPAvatar** | Display | User profile avatar | ✅ |
| **MPDivider** | Display | Divider with theme support | ✅ |
| **MPEmptyState** | Display | Empty state placeholder | ✅ |
| **MPTab** | Navigation | Tab navigation | ✅ |
| **MPSkeleton** | Display | Loading skeleton | ✅ |
| **MPArticleCard** | Display | Article card with features | ✅ |

### 📦 Component Categories

#### 🔘 Basic Components
- **MPButton** - Multiple variants (primary, outlined, ghost, etc.)
- **MPCard** - Content containers with elevation
- **MPText** - Typography system with built-in styles
- **MPTextField** - Form inputs with validation

#### 📝 Form Components
- **MPCheckbox** - Checkboxes with states
- **MPSwitch** - Toggle switches
- **MPDropdown** - Select inputs with search
- **MPBadge** - Status indicators

#### 💬 Feedback Components
- **MPChip** - Tag and label chips
- **MPTooltip** - Contextual tooltips
- **MPProgress** - Linear and circular progress
- **MPToast** - Quick notifications
- **MPSnackbar** - Snackbar with actions

#### 🧭 Navigation Components
- **MPDialog** - Modal dialogs
- **MPBottomSheet** - Bottom sheet modals
- **MPAppBar** - Theme-aware app bars
- **MPNavigationRail** - Desktop sidebar
- **MPPlatformAdaptive** - Platform widget selector
- **MPTab** - Tab navigation

#### 📰 Display Components
- **MPListTile** - Standard list items
- **MPAvatar** - User profile images
- **MPDivider** - Dividers with styling
- **MPEmptyState** - Empty state placeholders
- **MPSkeleton** - Loading skeletons
- **MPArticleCard** - Article cards

---

## 🔘 MPButton

Customizable button with multiple variants and states.

```dart
MPButton(
  text: 'Get Started',
  variant: MPButtonVariant.primary,
  size: MPButtonSize.medium,
  onPressed: () => print('Button pressed'),
)

// Button with icon
MPButton(
  text: 'Download',
  icon: Icons.download,
  variant: MPButtonVariant.outlined,
  onPressed: () => _downloadFile(),
)

// Loading state
MPButton(
  text: 'Processing...',
  loading: true,
  onPressed: null, // Disabled when loading
)
```

**Variants**: `primary`, `outlined`, `ghost`, `text`, `danger`, `success`, `warning`, `info`
**Sizes**: `small`, `regular`, `medium`, `large`

### 📝 MPCheckbox

Checkbox component with multiple sizes and states.

```dart
// Basic checkbox
MPCheckbox(
  value: _isChecked,
  onToggle: (value) => setState(() => _isChecked = value ?? false),
)

// With label
Row(
  children: [
    MPCheckbox(
      value: _isChecked,
      onToggle: (value) => setState(() => _isChecked = value ?? false),
    ),
    SizedBox(width: 12),
    MPText('I agree to the terms'),
  ],
)

// Different sizes
MPCheckbox(
  value: true,
  size: MPCheckboxSize.small,
  onToggle: (value) {},
)

// Indeterminate state
MPCheckbox(
  value: _isIndeterminate,
  tristate: true,
  onToggle: (value) => setState(() => _isIndeterminate = value ?? false),
)
```

**Sizes**: `small`, `medium`, `large`
**States**: `checked`, `unchecked`, `indeterminate`

### 🔄 MPSwitch

Toggle switch component with multiple variants.

```dart
// Basic switch
MPSwitch(
  value: _isOn,
  onToggle: (value) => setState(() => _isOn = value),
)

// With label
Row(
  children: [
    Expanded(child: MPText('Dark Mode')),
    MPSwitch(
      value: _isDarkMode,
      onToggle: (value) => setState(() => _isDarkMode = value),
    ),
  ],
)

// Different sizes
MPSwitch(
  value: true,
  size: MPSwitchSize.small,
  onToggle: (value) {},
)

// Disabled
MPSwitch(
  value: true,
  disabled: true,
  onToggle: (value) {},
)
```

**Sizes**: `small`, `medium`, `large`

**Note**: MPSwitch uses the [flutter_switch](https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_switch) package to provide advanced features not available in Flutter's native Switch widget:
- Custom width, height, and thumb size dimensions
- ON/OFF text indicators
- Full border customization (BoxBorder support)
- Arbitrary widget icons (not limited to Material 3)
- Custom animation duration

While flutter_switch is not actively maintained (last updated in 2021), it remains compatible with the latest Flutter versions. Migration to native Switch was evaluated but rejected due to the significant feature loss that would result. See the full analysis in `.auto-claude/specs/001-improvement/FLUTTER_SWITCH_ANALYSIS.md`.

### 🏷️ MPChip

Tag and label chip component with variants.

```dart
// Basic chip
MPChip(
  label: 'Flutter',
  onTap: () => print('Chip tapped'),
)

// With avatar
MPChip(
  label: 'John Doe',
  avatar: CircleAvatar(child: Text('JD')),
  onTap: () {},
)

// Closable chip
MPChip(
  label: 'Tag',
  onDeleted: () => print('Chip deleted'),
)

// Filter chip
MPChip(
  label: 'All',
  selected: _isSelected,
  variant: MPChipVariant.filter,
  onTap: () => setState(() => _isSelected = !_isSelected),
)
```

**Variants**: `default`, `primary`, `outlined`, `filter`

### 📊 MPProgress

Progress indicators for loading and completion states.

```dart
// Linear progress bar
MPProgressBar(
  value: 0.7, // 0.0 to 1.0
)

// Indeterminate progress
const MPProgressBar()

// Circular progress
MPCircularProgress(
  value: 0.5,
)

// Indeterminate circular
const MPCircularProgress()
```

### 📋 MPDropdown

Select dropdown component with search support.

```dart
// Basic dropdown
MPDropdown<String>(
  hint: 'Select country',
  value: _selectedCountry,
  items: const [
    DropdownItem(value: 'US', label: 'United States'),
    DropdownItem(value: 'UK', label: 'United Kingdom'),
  ],
  onChanged: (value) => setState(() => _selectedCountry = value),
)

// Searchable dropdown
MPDropdown<String>(
  hint: 'Search and select',
  searchable: true,
  items: _allItems,
  onChanged: (value) => setState(() => _selectedValue = value),
)

// Multi-select
MPDropdown<String>(
  hint: 'Select categories',
  multiSelect: true,
  items: _categories,
  onChanged: (values) => setState(() => _selectedCategories = values),
)
```

### 💡 MPTooltip

Contextual tooltip component for additional information.

```dart
// Basic tooltip
MPTooltip(
  message: 'This is a tooltip',
  child: Icon(Icons.help),
)

// Rich tooltip with icon
MPTooltip(
  message: 'Feature available in Pro',
  icon: Icons.star,
  child: Icon(Icons.lock),
)

// Positioned tooltip
MPTooltip(
  message: 'Positioned at top',
  position: MPTooltipPosition.top,
  child: MPButton(text: 'Hover Me'),
)
```

**Positions**: `top`, `bottom`, `left`, `right`

### 💬 MPSnackbar

Snackbar notification component with variants and actions.

```dart
// Basic snackbar
MPSnackbar.show(
  context: context,
  message: 'Operation completed successfully',
  variant: MPSnackbarVariant.success,
)

// With action
MPSnackbar.show(
  context: context,
  message: 'Item deleted',
  action: MPSnackbarAction(
    label: 'UNDO',
    onPressed: () => _undoDeletion(),
  ),
)

// Custom duration
MPSnackbar.show(
  context: context,
  message: 'This message will stay for 5 seconds',
  duration: Duration(seconds: 5),
)

// Custom position
MPSnackbar.show(
  context: context,
  message: 'Top positioned snackbar',
  position: MPSnackbarPosition.top,
)
```

**Variants**: `success`, `error`, `info`, `warning`
**Positions**: `top`, `bottom`

### 💀 MPSkeleton

Loading skeleton component for placeholder content.

```dart
// Text skeleton
MPSkeleton(type: MPSkeletonType.line, width: double.infinity)

// Avatar skeleton
MPSkeleton(type: MPSkeletonType.circle, size: 64)

// Image skeleton
MPSkeleton(
  type: MPSkeletonType.rect,
  width: double.infinity,
  height: 200,
)

// Card skeleton
Container(
  child: Column(
    children: [
      MPSkeleton(type: MPSkeletonType.rect, width: 100, height: 100),
      SizedBox(height: 12),
      MPSkeleton(type: MPSkeletonType.line, width: 200),
      MPSkeleton(type: MPSkeletonType.line, width: 150),
    ],
  ),
)
```

**Types**: `line`, `circle`, `rect`

### 📰 MPArticleCard

```dart
MPArticleCard(
  title: 'Understanding Flutter Themes',
  description: 'Learn how to implement beautiful themes in your Flutter applications.',
  imageUrl: 'https://example.com/image.jpg',
  author: 'John Doe',
  date: 'March 15, 2024',
  readTime: '5 min read',
  category: 'Flutter',
  tags: ['UI', 'Themes', 'Development'],
  onTap: () => _openArticle(),
  onLike: () => _toggleLike(),
  onBookmark: () => _toggleBookmark(),
  onShare: () => _shareArticle(),
)
```

**Variants**: `standard`, `elevated`, `outlined`
**Sizes**: `small`, `medium`, `large`

### 📝 MPText

Enhanced text component with built-in styling options.

```dart
// Different text styles
MPText.head('Heading Text')
MPText.subhead('Subheading Text')
MPText.body('Body text content')
MPText.label('Label text')
MPText.small('Small caption text')

// Custom styling
MPText(
  'Custom styled text',
  style: MPTextStyle.heading3(
    color: context.mp.primary,
    fontWeight: FontWeight.bold,
  ),
)
```

### 📝 MPTextField

Input field component with validation and theming support.

```dart
MPTextField(
  hintText: 'Enter your email',
  controller: _emailController,
  prefixIcon: Icons.email,
  validator: (value) {
    if (value?.isEmpty ?? true) return 'Email is required';
    if (!value!.contains('@')) return 'Invalid email format';
    return null;
  },
  onChanged: (value) => _updateEmail(value),
)

// Password field
MPTextField(
  hintText: 'Password',
  controller: _passwordController,
  obscureText: true,
  prefixIcon: Icons.lock,
  suffixIcon: Icons.visibility,
)
```

### 💬 MPDialog

Modal dialog component with multiple display options.

```dart
// Confirmation dialog
MPDialog.show(
  context: context,
  title: 'Confirm Deletion',
  content: 'Are you sure you want to delete this item?',
  confirmText: 'Delete',
  cancelText: 'Cancel',
  type: DialogType.warning,
  onConfirm: () => _deleteItem(),
)

// Success dialog
MPDialog.show(
  context: context,
  title: 'Success!',
  content: 'Your changes have been saved successfully.',
  type: DialogType.success,
  onConfirm: () => Navigator.of(context).pop(),
)
```

### 📑 MPTab

Customizable tab component for navigation.

```dart
MPTab(
  tabs: const ['Home', 'Profile', 'Settings'],
  selectedIndex: _selectedIndex,
  onTabChanged: (index) => setState(() => _selectedIndex = index),
  variant: MPTabVariant.rounded,
)
```

### 🔔 MPSnackbar

Notification component for displaying brief messages.

```dart
MPSnackbar.show(
  context: context,
  message: 'Operation completed successfully',
  type: MPSnackbarType.success,
  duration: Duration(seconds: 3),
  action: SnackBarAction(
    label: 'UNDO',
    onPressed: () => _undoAction(),
  ),
)
```

## 🎯 Advanced Usage

### Custom Theme Configuration

```dart
// Initialize with custom configuration
MpUiKit.init(
  colorBrand: Color(0xFF4086EF),
  colorBrand2: Color(0xFFFFFFFF),
  colorStroke: Color(0xFF4086EF),
  colorText: Color(0xFF2F2F2F),
  colorError: Color(0xFFFF0000),
  colorDisable: Color(0xFFA9A9A9),
  fontName: 'Inter',
  buttonBorderRadius: 12.0,
  useScreenUtil: true, // Enable responsive font sizing
);

// Custom text style
MPTextStyle.defaultFontFamily = 'Roboto';
```

### Responsive Design

The UI Kit includes built-in responsive utilities:

```dart
// Responsive breakpoints
MpUiKit.limitSmallMediumScreen = 600;   // Small < 600px < Medium
MpUiKit.limitMediumLargeScreen = 1024;   // Medium < 1024px < Large

// Responsive font helper
double responsiveSize = ResponsiveFontHelper.getResponsiveFontSize(
  16.0, // Base font size
  context,
);
```

## 📚 Documentation

For detailed documentation and examples:

- [Getting Started Guide](docs/getting-started/README.md)
- [Component API Reference](docs/api/components.md)
- [Theme Configuration](docs/guides/theming.md)
- [Examples](docs/examples/README.md)

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

### Development Setup

1. Clone the repository
2. Run `flutter pub get` in the root directory
3. Run `flutter pub get` in the example directory
4. Run the example app: `cd example && flutter run`

### Code Style

This project follows the [Very Good Analysis](https://pub.dev/packages/very_good_analysis) linting rules.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 📋 Changelog

### ✅ Recent Updates

#### [0.3.0] - 2025-12-23
- ✨ **New Demo Pages**: Added 9 new demo pages for all form components
  - Badge, Switch, Chip, Progress, Dropdown, Tooltip, Checkbox, Snackbar, Skeleton
- 📊 **Complete Demo Coverage**: 100% demo coverage for all 26 components
- 🎨 **Enhanced App Bar Demo**: Improved UX with proper full-screen examples
- 🧭 **Navigation Improvements**: Added Form Components section in home page
- 📝 **Documentation**: Updated README with component table and examples

#### [0.2.0] - 2025-12-23
- 🧭 **Navigation Components**: MPBottomSheet, MPNavigationRail, MPAppBar, MPPlatformAdaptive
- 📊 **Feedback Components**: MPListTile, MPAvatar, MPDivider, MPEmptyState
- 🧪 **Complete Test Suite**: Tests for all new components
- 📱 **Platform Support**: Enhanced macOS and web optimization

#### [0.1.1] - 2025-12-06
- 🔧 **Code Quality**: Final cleanup of flutter_screenutil remnants
- 🧪 **Test Suite**: Complete removal of ScreenUtilInit from test files
- 📝 **Documentation**: Added comprehensive migration guide and API reference
- 🐛 **Bug Fixes**: Resolved all ScreenUtil-related issues

#### [0.1.0] - 2025-12-05
- ❌ **Breaking Change**: Removed `flutter_screenutil` dependency
- 🔄 **Migration**: Complete transition to `MPResponsive` system
- 🚀 **Performance**: 18% faster app startup, 50KB smaller bundle
- 📱 **Responsive**: New built-in responsive design system

### 📚 Migration Resources
- **[Migration Guide](MIGRATION_GUIDE.md)**: Step-by-step flutter_screenutil to MPResponsive migration
- **[Changelog](CHANGELOG.md)**: Detailed version history and breaking changes
- **API Reference**: Complete documentation for new responsive methods

## 🔗 Links

- [Pub.dev Package](https://pub.dev/packages/micropack_ui_kit)
- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/ajianaz/micropack-ui-kit.git)
- [Example App](example/)
- [Issue Tracker](https://github.com/ajianaz/micropack-ui-kit/issues)

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Thanks to all the contributors who have helped make this package better
- Built with ❤️ for the Flutter community
